keywords are the heart and soul of your
google ads accounts and they play a
pivotal role
in making sure your ads are showing up
for the right kind of searches
now it would be great to think you can
just select a bunch of keywords and
everything is just going to work out
perfectly
but if you've been managing google ads
campaigns for a while then you know the
pareto principle is in effect
and about 20 of your keywords on average
are responsible for 80
of your results in today's video i want
to show you how you can optimize
underperforming keywords in your google
ads accounts so you can generate more
leads sales and ultimately customers
from your google ads campaigns
let's get right into it
hey guys sylvia perez here for mad
conversion helping you solve your lead
generation problems
and grow your business with digital
advertising if you're new here make sure
to click on that subscribe button and
all the links and resources that i
mentioned
you can find in the description box down
below
the first step to optimizing
underperforming keywords in your google
ads account
is to define what underperforming means
to you
is it cost per conversion is it
conversion rate
is it quality score whatever it is just
choose the metric that
really means the most to your business
and will have the greatest impact on
your business growth
and really the the importance with this
step is to define what underperforming
is so that you can set your baseline of
where you're currently at
and then as you start to implement the
changes that i'm going to talk about you
can measure against it and see if you're
moving in the right direction or not
the second step to optimizing your
underperforming keywords in your google
ads account
is to diagnose what the problem is so
you need to understand your goal with
every keyword in your account
is to have the highest ad rank possible
by having a high ad rank that means
you're showing up on the top of the page
the majority of the time
and you're beating your competitors now
ad rank is composed of your max cost per
click bid
and your quality score meaning you need
your bid to be as high as possible
just to remain competitive and you want
your quality score to be as high as
possible
that way you can limit the amount you're
gonna have to pay per click now i
actually created a full video on ad rank
and quality score and you can check that
out in the description box down below
and it'll go much more into detail if
you're not familiar with those concepts
so if you go into your google ads
account and you go into the keyword
section you can just press g and then k
on your keyboard
or just click search keywords on the
left hand side you can go here into your
keywords tab and if you go to columns
right here and you click
modify columns you can add additional
metrics that you wouldn't
necessarily have if you just had the
default
standard column metrics that the keyword
level provides you
so when it comes to keywords and
diagnosing keywords and understanding
whether or not my keywords are actually
underperforming
there are some columns that i like to
add into the keyword report that way i
can really understand how they're doing
the first one that i want to see is
quality score so i always make sure to
have quality score enabled
and this is going to get going to show
you how relevant your ads and keywords
are
and from that score from 1 through 10
and you want this as high as possible
so you can see in the case with this
account it's 4 out of 10 which is pretty
low
ideally you want 70 of your keywords in
your google ads account of your active
enabled keywords
to be above seven so you're really
aiming for seven plus
the next one i like to see here is
search top impression share and this is
just going to show me of
my ads for these keywords how often am i
in the top
three positions on the page so this is
going to tell you how visible your ads
are on the top of the page
and you ideally want this as close to
100 as possible
so for example this one right here less
than 10 percent that's pretty bad
uh you you definitely want to increase
that but this keyword is a broad match
keyword
this is an exact match keyword and this
is a phrase match keyword so this
the more tight your match types are the
more
impression share you're going to have
versus it's basically the more
targeted you are the more refined you're
targeting are the bigger
impression share you're going to have
but the the broader you are the less
impression show you're going to have
because you're basically you know you
have a much bigger pool that you're
trying to cover
the next one i like to see is click
share this is going to show me of all
the potential clicks i can receive
what percentage am i receiving in
relation to the competition
and then over here i like to enable as
well the different elements of quality
score so for example this number right
here is 4 out of 10
and that doesn't really tell me anything
you know yes i understand from a macro
level that i need to improve quality
score but what part of quality score is
hurting this
account the most and these are the
different elements of quality score so
you have landing page experience
ad relevance and expected click-through
rate so landing page experience is just
basically
how relevant does google think your ads
and keywords
are to your landing page ad relevance is
how relevant are your ads to your
keywords
and then expected click-through rate is
just basically google's perception of
how often they think your ads are going
to get clicked
so this is the breakdown and i actually
created a full video on how to improve
quality score and how to
improve each one of these different
elements of quality score that you can
definitely check out and that will be in
the description box down below
but to go ahead and enable these
different columns just click here on
columns modify columns
and then when it comes to quality score
you'll find all the quality score
metrics right here
under quality score and then competitive
metrics that i was talking about you'll
find right here
and then all the performance metrics
that you want you can find up here as
well
so you'll be able to get access to all
these different metrics
you can just save this as a custom
column that way every time you go into
your keywords tab they're here for you
and this is what it looks like on the
right hand side
if you want to pause the video take a
screenshot of it feel free to this is
how i have my keyword column set up
so now once you have that set up you're
going to be able to see and understand
and diagnose
what's hurting you the most from a
quality score perspective
if it's quality score then you know to
improve that if it's not
quality score maybe it's your bids maybe
your bids are too low you can raise them
but by having the proper columns in
place you're going to be able to
diagnose your keywords
and truly understand whether or not your
account is actually underperforming
the third and final step to optimizing
your underperforming keywords in your
google ads account
is to implement your optimizations now
when you were diagnosing your google ads
account
if you noticed that 70 of your keywords
have a below average quality score
meaning 70 are below seven then that
means you really need to focus on
optimizing your quality score
so go ahead and modify your columns and
add those three elements of quality
score so you can see which one is
hurting you the most
again that's ad relevance landing page
experience and expected click-through
rate
so whichever one is hurting you the most
make sure you focus on improving that
one element
so you can improve your overall quality
score as a whole because you want high
quality score
because that's going to make your ad
rank higher and reduce your average cost
per click
and again if you're not familiar with
quality score and ad rank
do go check out that video and i'll have
it linked in the description box down
below
now when diagnosing your google ads
account if you notice that
your bids were below that first page bid
recommendations for the majority of them
then i highly recommend that you raise
those bids
at least to the first page estimates if
you have those errors from google saying
that you're below that first page bid
you really want to make sure you're
raising it to that first page bid
estimate
and the reason being is you need your
bid to be
competitive enough to compete against
everyone else in the auction place
yes you want to focus on improving that
quality score so you don't have to pay
as high
with that that bid but you do need it to
be set at a high enough
threshold where you're still remaining
competitive because google ads at the
end of the day is still an
auction place now if in the case you
have great quality scores
your bids are high enough to be
competitive and you are showing up
for the right kind of searches the
majority of the time and if you're not
build your negative keyword list but
assuming you have the bids in place your
quality score is good
and you're showing up for the right kind
of searches but you're still
not getting the performance you want
then this is where you really need to
focus on
testing your ad copy and improving your
landing page conversion rates
because by doing tests on your ads and
your landing pages
if you can improve your conversion rates
and get more visitors to convert
more frequently that boost in conversion
rate might just be enough to offset
your acquisition costs and to make that
keyword now profitable for you
lastly if it's just not realistic for
you to get the conversion rate that you
would need
in order to make this keyword work then
you're most likely going to have to
pause that keyword and you're better off
trying to find new keywords
that you have the potential to make work
or perhaps you might even have to
consider
pivoting your strategy and finding other
platforms that you can leverage
that just have a better cost per click
and that you can make the numbers work
that is it for this video i hope you got
tremendous value from it
just to quickly recap when it comes to
dealing with underperforming keywords in
your google ads account
first and foremost you need to define
what underperforming is
set that baseline so you can start to
measure against it number two is you
need to diagnose
go into your google ads account and
modify your columns like i showed you
so you can see what is hurting you the
most and then step number three is to
implement your optimizations
again if you have low quality scores
focus on improving that first
second if your bids are just too low
consider raising them so you can remain
competitive and then third if you have
good quality score you're showing up for
the right kind of searches
your bids are high enough then focus on
testing ad copy
and improving your landing page
conversion rate so you can make the
metrics work for that keyword
and then last but not least if it's just
not realistic for you to get the
conversion rates you need
for that keyword to make it work just
consider pausing it
finding new keywords or even pivoting
your strategy altogether
thanks so much for watching if you want
to learn more about google ads i highly
recommend you join my new facebook group
on google ads lead generation you can
find that in the description box down
below
and as well as links and resources to
other google ads trainings and anything
that i think can help you
on your google ads journey thanks so
much for watching i'll see you in the
next one
take care